Reviewer 2 of ICUAS'23 submission 97

Comments to the author
======================

This paper explores the extension of anomaly detection
using hierarchical dynamic Bayesian networks (DBNs) to
multi-robot systems. The extension is evaluated in
simulation and the effect of cluster size and noise is
shown.

The contributions of this work seem to be minor as far as I
can tell, since the main theoretical part of the use of
hierarchical DBNs for anomaly detection has been covered
previously. I have trouble seeing how the proposed
extension to multi-robot systems is different from simply
grouping the individual robots DBNs on a higher level. The
advantage of having this added level of hierarchy does not
become clear to me. 

The simulation study is a nice addition and varying cluster
size and noise parameters gives some valuable insights. I
recommend you give more space to these results and discuss
the implications. How should one chose the number of
clusters? What should we be careful of when working with
larger noise? What trade-offs have to be made when choosing
parameters?

I'd also like to note that as far as I can tell, most of
the paper focuses on an explanation of the use of
hierarchical DBNs for anomaly detection and little time is
spent on the actual contributions. While the distinction
between proprioceptive and exteroceptive observations is
given as a distinguishing aspect of this work, I could not
identify how these were treated differently, nor why it
would be beneficial to do so. 

The language use seems quite cryptic and convoluted to me,
so it is very much possible that I missed part of the
explanation of your contributions or other intricacies of
your work, and for this I am sorry. I would however
recommend that you try and simplify the language to make
sure that doesn't happen to your other readers. I know that
in the scientific community we have a tendency to use
language that is difficult to understand (excessive use of
passive voice,
nominalizitions, etc.) and sometimes that can cause
misunderstandings. 
As an example from this paper, I'd like to refer to this
sentence from the "related work" section,
"They build temporal relations between the states according
to the data derived during initialization and consequently,
in a new experience, they update the posterior probability
of agent state space based on this observation", which as
far as I can tell means: "They propagate their previous
state estimate using a system model and correct this
prediction using the latest measurements".

As a final remark, I recommend the authors improve the
figures, especially the plots in figures 5-8:
- add axis labels & units
- chose more consistent tick markers on the y axis. Ideally
same range for same plots, if the ranges are too different,
at least use the same number of ticks and similar precision
- increase distance between subplots, such that axis labels
and titles are clearly distinguishable
- For the position plots, I recommend using a 1:1 aspect
ratio
- Use vector graphics & increase the font-size